[IMP] Misc: 15.0 email templates / FAQ update (#4229)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/general/email_communication/email_template.rst

every time. Without the need to rewrite the entire email structure every time, time is saved.
Multiple templates also let the user deliver the right message to the right audience, improving
their overall experience with the company.

.. note::
   The email templates use QWeb or XML. The composer allows the user to edit emails in their final
   rendering, making customizations more robust as the user doesn't have to edit code.

Editing email templates
=======================

Starting Odoo 15, the Powerbox feature was released. The Powerbox allows for the user to edit the
format of the text, to add links or buttons, appointment options, and to add images to the email
template. Additionally the XML/HTML code of the email template can be edited via the :guilabel:`</>`
icon. Dynamic placeholders (referencing fields within Odoo) are only available in the subject line
and to and from fields in Odoo 15.

Powerbox feature
----------------

The Powerbox feature is a enriched texted editor with many different options to format the layout
and text style or add XML/HTML features in an email template. The Powerbox is activated by typing a
forward slash `/` in the body of the email template.

> The following options will be available once the Powerbox is activated:

Author: This is noted in the line before. Line 27/28. All that needs to be done is typing a forward slash.

I've changed the wording to: The following options will be available once a forward slash `/` is typed in:

**Basic Blocks**

> - Three different heading types

Author: I've added these in: (H1-H3: Small-Large)

- A text paragraph block
- A bulleted list
- A numbered list
- A checklist
- A table
- The ability to switch the direction of the text
- A horizontal separator

> - A quote

Reviewer: I would remove the "A" from the start of any bullet that includes it

Author: Thanks, this is a good point.

- Add code to the text
- Add a specific appointment
- Schedule an appointment

**Navigation**

- Link
- Button

**Media**

- Image

> To activate one of these options simply click on the option in the Powerbox. If it is a text option
> then highlight the text first and type in the activator key `/` and select the option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To activate one of these options, simply click on it in the Powerbox. If it is a text option,
then highlight the text, type in the activator key `/`, and select the option.
```

.. image:: email_template/powerbox-feature.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Powerbox feature in the email template.

Editing via XML/HTML code
-------------------------

To access the XML/HTML editor for the email template click on the :guilabel:`</>` icon in the upper
right hand corner of the template. The icon will appear in turquoise.

.. image:: email_template/html-code-editor.png
   :align: center
   :alt: HTML editor in the email template.

Dynamic placeholders
--------------------

Dynamic placeholders are encoded to display fields from within the database. Dynamic placeholders
can no longer be used in Odoo 15 except for in the subject line, and to and from fields. Although
the generator is present as the last tab on the template, it will create placeholders for use only

> in the above mentioned fields. Dynamic placeholders may be inserted in the HTML code, but this task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the above-mentioned fields. Dynamic placeholders may be inserted in the HTML code, but this task
```

is out of the scope of Odoo Support.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../../../services/support/what_can_i_expect`

> Defining a default reply to on the mail template
> ================================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining a default reply on the mail template
=============================================
```

> Although the *reply to* field is available within the mail templates, **this field is only used
> for mass mailing** mode (this means when sending templates on bulk emailing). Emails

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the *reply to* field is available within email templates, **this field is only used
for mass mailing** mode (when sending emails in bulk). Emails
```

can be sent in bulk in almost every application that has a list view. Select the records where the

> emails are to be sent and click on the :guilabel:`Action` button. If there is the option to send an
> email, a mail composer with possible values to define will appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
emails are to be sent and click on the :guilabel:`Action` button. If it is possible to send an
email, a mail composer with values that can be defined will appear.
```

.. image:: email_template/composer-mass-mailing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Composer in mass mailing mode after selecting multiple quotations.

> They can also be defined by default on the template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values can also be defined by default on the template:
```

.. image:: email_template/reply-to-template-sales.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Reply-to field on template.

Because of this, setting a value in this field is useless as the value defined will be totally

> ignored. The default *reply-to* value is the default catchall email address to ensure a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ignored. The default *reply-to* value is the default catchall email address, to ensure a
```

communication between the customer and the Odoo database. For more information about the way
the catchall works, check :ref:`how to manage inbound messages
<email_communication/inbound_messages>`.

> Transactional emails and corresponding URL for each company
> ===========================================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactional emails and corresponding URLs for each company
============================================================
```

> When using Odoo, multiple events trigger the sending of automated emails. These emails are known

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Odoo, multiple events can trigger the sending of automated emails. These emails are known
```

as transactional emails and sometimes contain links pointing to the Odoo database.

By default, links generated by the database use the dynamic web.base.url key defined in the system

> parameters. More information about this :ref:`parameter <domain-name/web-base-url>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters. For more information about this, see :ref:`parameter <domain-name/web-base-url>`.
```

If the website application isn't installed, the web.base.url key will always be the default
parameter used to generate all the links.

It's important to know that this key can only have a single value, meaning that in a
multi-website/company database environment, even there is a specific domain name for each

> website, the links generated to share a document or within a transactional email may remain the

Reviewer: I don't really understand what this is saying. I would rewrite it entirely.

Author: I've added an example: 

.. example::
   If the value of the web.base.url system parameter is equal to ``https://www.purpletest.com`` and
   there are two separate websites in Odoo with different URLS: ``https://www.purplecompany.com``
   and ``https://www.purpleteam.com``, the links created by Odoo to share a document or send a
   transactional email will come from the domain: ``https://www.purpletest.com``.

===============
Email templates
===============

Writing effective emails is vital for receiving a high response rate. Email templates allow users to
send emails without having to compose or rewrite the same structure repeatedly, saving time and
improving efficiency. Creating different templates tailored to specific situations lets users choose
the right message for the right audience, which helps to increase engagement.

.. note::
   Odoo's email templates use QWeb or XML. The composer allows the user to edit emails in their
   final rendering, making customizations more robust as the user doesn't have to edit code.

Editing email templates
=======================

Starting with Odoo 15, the Powerbox feature can be used. The Powerbox allows for the user to edit
the format of the text, to add links or buttons, appointment options, and to add images to the email
template. Additionally, the XML/HTML code of the email template can be edited via the
:guilabel:`</>` icon. Dynamic placeholders (referencing fields within Odoo) are only available in

> the subject line and to and from fields in Odoo 15.

Author: I confirmed this and added in the proper fields. Thanks for pointing this out.

Powerbox feature
----------------

The Powerbox feature is an enriched text editor with various options for formatting layout and text,
and adding XML/HTML features in an email template. The Powerbox is activated by typing a forward
slash `/` in the body of the email template.

The following options will be available once a forward slash `/` is typed in:

**Basic Blocks**

- Three different heading types (H1-H3: Small-Large)
- Text paragraph block
- Bulleted list
- Numbered list
- Checklist
- Table
- The ability to switch the direction of the text
- Horizontal separator
- Quote
- Add code to the text
- Add a specific appointment

> - Schedule an appointment

Author: Nice! Thanks for adding this in!

**Navigation**

- Link
- Button

> **Media**

Author: Yeah, I noticed this as well. I added the fictional word in :)

Medias is actually a word to describe the plural "media" that cover news events-- The medias of the country covered the event...

- Image

To activate one of these options, simply click on it in the Powerbox. If it is a text option, then\

> highlight the text, type in the activator key `/`, and select the option.

Author: thanks, great suggestion @ksc-odoo

.. image:: email_template/powerbox-feature.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Powerbox feature in the email template.

Editing via XML/HTML code
-------------------------

To access the XML/HTML editor for the email template click on the :guilabel:`</>` icon in the upper

> right hand corner of the template. The icon will appear in turquoise.

Author: Great description, thanks for adding this in.

.. image:: email_template/html-code-editor.png
   :align: center
   :alt: HTML editor in the email template.

Dynamic placeholders
--------------------

Dynamic placeholders are encoded to display fields from within the database. Dynamic placeholders
can no longer be used in Odoo 15 except for in the subject line, and to and from fields. Although
the generator is present as the last tab on the template, it will create placeholders for use only
in the above-mentioned fields. Dynamic placeholders may be inserted in the HTML code, but this task

> is out of the scope of Odoo Support.

Author: Great suggestions, thanks.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../../../services/support/what_can_i_expect`

Defining a default reply on the mail template
=============================================

Although the *reply to* field is available within email templates, **this field is only used for
mass mailing** mode (when sending emails in bulk). Emails can be sent in bulk in almost every
application that has a list view. Select the records where the emails are to be sent and click on
the :guilabel:`Action` button. If it is possible to send an email, a mail composer with values that

> can be defined will appear.

Author: Thanks for expanding on this.

.. image:: email_template/composer-mass-mailing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Composer in mass mailing mode after selecting multiple quotations.

> Values can also be defined by default on the template:

Author: Noted, I agree with you here, I've removed.

orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.

For more information about how to configure domains, check out the :doc:`domain name documentation
</administration/maintain/domain_names>`.

Updating translations within email templates
--------------------------------------------

In Odoo, email templates are automatically translated. Changing the translations shouldn't be
necessary. However, if for a specific reason, some of the translations need to be changed, it can be
done.

It should be noted, like any modification in the code, if they aren't done correctly (for example,
modifications leading to bad syntax), it can break the template, and as a result, the template will
appear blank.

In order to edit translations, go through the following steps from the template. In order to access
the translations, first enter :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`. Then click on the
:guilabel:`Edit` button and then on the language button; represented by the initials of the language
currently being used.

   .. image:: email_template/edit-language-template.png
      :align: center

>       :alt: Edit the language of a template.

Reviewer 2: Image indented unnecessarily, scoot it back to the beginning of the line please

A pop-up window with the different languages installed on the database appears. From this pop-up,
editing of translations is possible. When the desired changes have been made, click the
:guilabel:`Save` button to save the changes.

   .. image:: email_template/translation-body.png
      :align: center

>       :alt: Translation of the body of the Appointment Booked template.

Reviewer 2: This one too- scoot it back to the beginning of the line please

- :guilabel:`Separator`: Insert a horizontal rule separator.
- :guilabel:`Quote`: Add a blockquote section.
- :guilabel:`Code`: Add a code section.
- :guilabel:`Appointment`: Add a specific appointment.
- :guilabel:`Calendar`: Schedule an appointment.

**Navigation**

- :guilabel:`Link`: Add a link.
- :guilabel:`Button`: Add a button.

**Medias**

- :guilabel:`Image`: Insert an image.

To activate any of these options, click on the desired feature from the powerbox drop-down menu.

If it's a text-related option (e.g. :guilabel:`Heading 1`, :guilabel:`Switch direction`, etc.)
highlight the text, then type in the activator key `/`, and select the desired option from the
drop-down menu.

.. image:: email_template/powerbox-feature.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Powerbox feature in the email template.

XML/HTML code editor
--------------------

To access the XML/HTML editor for an email template, first enter :ref:`developer mode
<developer-mode>`. To enter developer mode, navigate to :menuselection:`Main Odoo dashboard -->
Settings`, scroll down to :guilabel:`Developer Tools` section, and click :guilabel:`Activate the
developer mode`.

> When clicked, the page refreshes, returns to the main Odoo dashboard, and a "bug" icon is present on

Author: Removed this section.

   :align: center
   :alt: Reply-to field on template.

The :guilabel:`Reply To` field is **only** used for mass mailing endeavors (sending emails in bulk).
Bulk emails can be sent in almost every Odoo application that has a `List` view option.

To send mass mails (while in `List` view), select the desired records where the emails are to be
sent, click the :guilabel:`Action` button, represented by a `Gear` icon (:guilabel:` ⚙️`), and
select the desired email option from the :guilabel:`Action` drop-down menu. If it is possible to
send an email, a mail composer pop-up appears, with values that can be defined and customized.

.. image:: email_template/composer-mass-mailing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Composer in mass mailing mode after selecting multiple quotations.

Transactional emails and corresponding URLs
===========================================

In Odoo, multiple events can trigger the sending of automated emails. These emails are known as
*transactional emails*, and sometimes contain links redirecting to the Odoo database.

By default, links generated by the database use the dynamic web.base.url key defined in the system

> parameters. For more information about this, see :ref:`parameter <domain-name/web-base-url>`.

Reviewer 2: The "web.base.url" formatting here is an interesting one because technically it is a **System Parameter** _record_ with the **Key** field as `web.base.url`and the **Value** field as `https://custom-domain.com`.

(Sorry can't add a suggestion) I think it could be formatted in the following paragraphs first with italics and then no formatting after:

```
...the dynamic *web.base.url* key defined in the system parameters. For more...
```

   the same (the web.base.url key value), no matter what company it's shared from. This is a known
   limitation.

On the other hand, sales orders made by a customer, on an Odoo *eCommerce* website, have a link
established with the website, from which the order was made. As a result, the e-mail sent for sales
orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.

For more information about how to configure domains, check out :doc:`our domain name documentation
</administration/maintain/domain_names>`.

Updating translations within email templates
--------------------------------------------

In Odoo, email templates are automatically translated. Changing the translations shouldn't be
necessary. However, if for a specific reason, some of the translations need to be changed, it can be
done.

However, like any modification in the code, if they aren't done correctly (for example,
modifications leading to bad syntax), it can break the template, and as a result, the template will
appear blank.

In order to edit translations, follow these steps from the template:

> #. To access the translations, first enter :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`. To enter
>    developer mode, navigate to :menuselection:`Main Odoo dashboard --> Settings`, scroll down to
>    :guilabel:`Developer Tools` section, and click :guilabel:`Activate the developer mode`.

Reviewer 2: Again I don't feel it is necessary to restate how to enter dev mode after telling the user to enter it with a reference to instructions, but this is just my opinion :)
```suggestion
#. To access the translations, first enter :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: No need for empty lines between bullet points of the same level with no other elements between :)
```suggestion
```

===============
Email templates
===============

Writing effective emails is vital in order for businesses to continuously earn high response rates.
Email templates allow users to send quality communications, without having to compose (or rewrite)
the same structure repeatedly, which saves time and improves efficiency.

Creating different templates that are tailored to specific situations and audiences lets users

> choose the right message for the right audience, which increases the quality of the message and
> enhances the overall engagement rate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
choose the right message for the right audience, which increases the quality of the message, and
enhances the overall engagement rate.
```

.. note::
   Email templates in Odoo use QWeb or XML, which allows the user to edit emails in their final

>    rendering, making customizations more robust without having to edit any code whatsoever.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   rendering, making customizations more robust, without having to edit any code whatsoever.
```

Editing email templates
=======================

In Odoo 15, the *Powerbox* feature can be used when working with email templates. This feature
provides the ability to directly edit the format/text in an email template, as well as the ability
to add links, buttons, appointment options, or images.

Additionally, the XML/HTML code of the email template can be edited directly, via the
:guilabel:`</>` icon. Dynamic placeholders (referencing fields within Odoo) are only available in
the :guilabel:`Email Configuration` fields, the :guilabel:`Subject`, and the :guilabel:`Language` in
Odoo 15.

Powerbox feature
----------------

The *Powerbox* feature is an enriched text editor with various formatting, layout, and text options.
It can also be used to add XML/HTML features in an email template. The powerbox feature is

> activated, by typing a forward slash `/` in the body of the email template.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
activated by typing a forward slash `/` in the body of the email template.
```

- :guilabel:`Heading 3`: Small section heading.
- :guilabel:`Text`: Paragraph block.
- :guilabel:`Bulleted list`: Create a simple bulleted list.
- :guilabel:`Numbered list`: Create a list with numbering.
- :guilabel:`Checklist`: Track tasks with a checklist.
- :guilabel:`Table`: Insert a table.
- :guilabel:`Switch direction`: Switch the text's direction.
- :guilabel:`Separator`: Insert a horizontal rule separator.
- :guilabel:`Quote`: Add a blockquote section.
- :guilabel:`Code`: Add a code section.
- :guilabel:`Appointment`: Add a specific appointment.
- :guilabel:`Calendar`: Schedule an appointment.

**Navigation**

- :guilabel:`Link`: Add a link.
- :guilabel:`Button`: Add a button.

**Medias**

- :guilabel:`Image`: Insert an image.

To activate any of these options, click on the desired feature from the powerbox drop-down menu.

If it's a text-related option (e.g. :guilabel:`Heading 1`, :guilabel:`Switch direction`, etc.)
highlight the text, then type in the activator key `/`, and select the desired option from the
drop-down menu.

.. image:: email_template/powerbox-feature.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Powerbox feature in the email template.

> Editing via XML/HTML code
> -------------------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
XML/HTML code editor
--------------------
```

To access the XML/HTML editor for an email template, first enter :ref:`developer mode
<developer-mode>`. To enter developer mode, navigate to :menuselection:`Main Odoo dashboard -->
Settings`, scroll down to :guilabel:`Developer Tools` section, and click :guilabel:`Activate the
developer mode`.

> When clicked, the page will auto-refresh, return to the main Odoo dashboard, and a "bug" icon is
> present on the top of the screen, beside the login and communication icons.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When clicked, the page refreshes, returns to the main Odoo dashboard, and a "bug" icon is present on
the top of the screen, beside the login and communication icons.
```

Once in developer mode, access to the XML/HTML editor is available on email templates. To access the
XML/HTML editor on email templates, click the :guilabel:`</>` icon in the upper-right corner of the
template, and proceed to edit the XML/HTML.

.. image:: email_template/html-code-editor.png
   :align: center
   :alt: HTML editor in the email template.

Dynamic placeholders
--------------------

Dynamic placeholders are encoded to display fields from within the database. In Odoo 15, dynamic
placeholders can **only** be used in the fields present in the :guilabel:`Email Configuration` tab,
the :guilabel:`Subject` and the :guilabel:`Language`.

Dynamic placeholders can be used with the following fields:

- :guilabel:`Subject` (Email Configuration tab)
- :guilabel:`From` (Email Configuration tab)
- :guilabel:`To (Emails)` (Email Configuration tab)
- :guilabel:`To (Partners)` (Email Configuration tab)
- :guilabel:`CC` (Email Configuration tab)
- :guilabel:`Reply-to` (Email Configuration tab)
- :guilabel:`Subject` (Main Template)
- :guilabel:`Language` (Settings Tab)

While the :guilabel:`Dynamic Placeholder Generator` is present as the last tab on the template, it

> only creates placeholders for aforementioned fields. Dynamic placeholders may also be inserted in
> the HTML code, but this task is out of the scope of Odoo Support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
only creates placeholders for the aforementioned fields. Dynamic placeholders may also be inserted
in the HTML code, but this task is out of the scope of Odoo Support.
```

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../../../services/support/what_can_i_expect`

To use the :guilabel:`Dynamic Placeholder Generator` navigate to the :guilabel:`Dynamic Placeholder
Generator` tab. Select the :guilabel:`Field` that the *dynamic placeholder* should reference by

> clicking on the :guilabel:`Field` dropdown. Should a :guilabel:`Sub-Model` or :guilabel:`Sub-Field`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
clicking on the :guilabel:`Field` drop-down. Should a :guilabel:`Sub-Model` or :guilabel:`Sub-Field`
```

> need to be specified, set those by selecting the corresponding dropdown. The *dynamic placeholder*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
need to be specified, set those by selecting the corresponding drop-down. The *dynamic placeholder*
```

will appear in the :guilabel:`Placeholder Expression` field. Copy and paste the *dynamic

> placeholder* in the appropriate field as listed above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
placeholder* in the appropriate field, as listed above.
```

> Configuring a default reply on email templates
> ==============================================

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Default reply on email templates
================================
```

Under the :guilabel:`Email Configuration` tab on an email template, there is a :guilabel:`Reply To`

> field. In this field, email addresses can be added, to which replies will be redirected when sending
> emails in mass using that template.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
field. In this field, email addresses can be added, to which replies are redirected when sending
emails in mass using that template.
```

.. image:: email_template/reply-to-template-sales.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Reply-to field on template.

The :guilabel:`Reply To` field is **only** used for mass mailing endeavors (sending emails in bulk).

> Emails can be sent in bulk in almost every Odoo application that has a `List` view option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Bulk emails can be sent in almost every Odoo application that has a `List` view option.
```

To send mass mails (while in `List` view), select the desired records where the emails are to be
sent, click the :guilabel:`Action` button, represented by a `Gear` icon (:guilabel:` ⚙️`), and
select the desired email option from the :guilabel:`Action` drop-down menu. If it is possible to

> send an email, a mail composer pop-up, with values that can be defined and customized, appears.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
send an email, a mail composer pop-up appears, with values that can be defined and customized.
```

Transactional emails and corresponding URLs
===========================================

In Odoo, multiple events can trigger the sending of automated emails. These emails are known as
*transactional emails*, and sometimes contain links redirecting to the Odoo database.

By default, links generated by the database use the dynamic web.base.url key defined in the system
parameters. For more information about this, see :ref:`parameter <domain-name/web-base-url>`.

If the website application isn't installed, the web.base.url key will always be the default
parameter used to generate all the links.

It's important to know that the web.base.url key can only have a single value, meaning that, in a
multi-website/company database environment, even there is a specific domain name for each website,
the links generated to share a document (or within a transactional email) may remain the same,
regardless of which website/company is related to the sending of the email/document.

.. example::
   If the value of the web.base.url system parameter is equal to `https://www.mycompany.com` and
   there are two separate websites in Odoo with different URLS: `https://www.mycompany2.com` and

>    `https://www.mycompany1.com`, the links created by Odoo to share a document or send a
>    transactional email will come from the domain: `https://www.mycompany.com`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   `https://www.mycompany1.com`, the links created by Odoo to share a document, or send a
   transactional email, come from the domain: `https://www.mycompany.com`.
```

> This is not always the case as some Odoo applications have a link established in the database with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is not always the case, as some Odoo applications have a link established in the database with
```

the website application. In that case, if a specific domain is defined for the websites, the URL

> generated in the email template will use the domain defined on the corresponding website of the
> company.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
generated in the email template uses the domain defined on the corresponding website of the company.
```

.. caution::
   A document shared using the documents application will always use the web.base.url key, as the
   document shared isn't associated with any particular website. Meaning that the URL will always be
   the same (the web.base.url key value), no matter what company it's shared from. This is a known
   limitation.

> On the other hand, sales orders made by a customer, on an Odoo eCommerce website, have a link
> established with the website, from which the order was made. As a result, the e-mail sent for sales
> orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the other hand, sales orders made by a customer, on an Odoo *eCommerce* website, have a link
established with the website, from which the order was made. As a result, the e-mail sent for sales
orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.
```

modifications leading to bad syntax), it can break the template, and as a result, the template will
appear blank.

In order to edit translations, follow these steps from the template:

#. To access the translations, first enter :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`. To enter
   developer mode, navigate to :menuselection:`Main Odoo dashboard --> Settings`, scroll down to
   :guilabel:`Developer Tools` section, and click :guilabel:`Activate the developer mode`.

#. Click on the :guilabel:`Edit` button, then on the language button, represented by the initials of
   the language currently being used.

   .. image:: email_template/edit-language-template.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Edit the language of a template.

#. A pop-up window with the different languages installed on the database appears. From this pop-up,
   the editing of translations is possible. When the desired changes have been made, click the
   :guilabel:`Save` button to save the changes.

   .. image:: email_template/translation-body.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Translation of the body of the Appointment Booked template.

.. note::

>    When editing the translations the language set in the database will appear in **bold**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   When editing the translations, the language set in the database appears in **bold**.
```

code, but this task is out of the scope of Odoo Support.

To use the *Dynamic Placeholder Generator*, navigate to the :guilabel:`Dynamic Placeholder
Generator` tab. Select the field that the dynamic placeholder should reference using the
:guilabel:`Field` drop-down menu. Should a :guilabel:`Sub-Model` or :guilabel:`Sub-Field` need to be
specified, set those by selecting the corresponding drop-down menu. These fields should be set
automatically after setting the :guilabel:`Field` drop-down. The dynamic placeholder will appear in
the :guilabel:`Placeholder Expression` field. Copy and paste the placeholder expression into the
appropriate field in the tabs of the email template, as listed above.

.. note::
   There will be a different combination of :guilabel:`Fields`, :guilabel:`Sub-models` and
   :guilabel:`Sub-fields` for each dynamic placeholder created. Imagine it as a key to the field
   that is being created.

   To search the available fields simply click the drop-down next to :guilabel:`Field` and select
   one or click :guilabel:`Search More`. This will allow the user to select from all of the

>    available fields for the model that the email template is created for.

Author: Referring to documentation on Models.

   These fields can also be accessed in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`. Navigate to the
   information that should be referenced in the dynamic placeholder and hover over the
   :guilabel:`Field` text. A box of backend information will reveal itself with the specific Odoo
   field name in the backend. Search this field in the :guilabel:`Field` drop-down in the particular
   email template.

.. seealso::
   :ref:`Views and fields in the developer documentation <developer/fields>`.

.. warning::

>    Custom email templates are out of the scope of Odoo Support.

Author: This refers to customizing email templates. I think it's important to make a boundary after discussing how to find the fields within models.

>    Custom email templates are out of the scope of Odoo Support.

Author: I've made a small edit to this to include: "customizing"

> Default reply on email templates

Author: I've made this edit. Thanks.

================================

Under the :guilabel:`Email Configuration` tab on an email template, there is a :guilabel:`Reply To`
field. In this field, add email addresses to which replies are redirected when sending emails en
masse using this template.

.. tip::
   Add multiple email addresses in by simply adding a `,` between the addresses or dynamic
   placeholders.

.. image:: email_template/reply-to-template-sales.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Reply-to field on template.

The :guilabel:`Reply To` field is **only** used for mass mailing endeavors (sending emails in bulk).
Bulk emails can be sent in almost every Odoo application that has a list view option.

To send mass mails, while in :guilabel:`list` view, select the desired records where the emails are
to be sent, click the :guilabel:`Action` button, represented by a :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)`, and select

> the desired email option from the :guilabel:`Action` drop-down menu. If it is possible to send an

Author: Noted, thanks.

> the desired email option from the :guilabel:`Action` drop-down menu. If it is possible to send an

Author: For this I've added in a note that the option can vary based on list view and application.

   links generated to share a document (or the links within a transactional email) may remain the
   same, regardless of which website/company is related to the sending of the email/document.

   .. example::
      If the :guilabel:`Value` of the :guilabel:`web.base.url` system parameter is equal to
      `https://www.mycompany.com` and there are two separate websites in Odoo with different URLs:
      `https://www.mycompany2.com` and `https://www.mycompany1.com`, the links created by Odoo to
      share a document, or send a transactional email, come from the domain:
      `https://www.mycompany.com`, regardless of which company sends the document or email.

   This is not always the case, as some Odoo applications (*eCommerce*, for example) have a link
   established in the database with the website application. In that case, if a specific domain is
   defined for the websites, the URL generated in the email template uses the domain defined on the
   corresponding website of the company.

   For example, a sale order made by a customer, on an Odoo *eCommerce* website, has a link
   established with the website, from which the order was made. As a result, the e-mail sent for

>    sales orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.

Author: Looks great thank you!

> .. caution::

Author: Agreed, thank you.

===============
Email templates
===============

Writing effective emails is vital for businesses to continuously earn high response rates. Email
templates are saved emails that are used repeatedly to send emails from the database. They allow
users to send quality communications, without having to compose the same text repeatedly.

Creating different templates that are tailored to specific situations lets users choose the right
message for the right audience, which increases the quality of the message and the overall
engagement rate of the customer.

.. note::
   Email templates in Odoo use QWeb or XML, which allows the user to edit emails in their final

>    rendering, making customizations more robust, without having to edit any code whatsoever.

Author: Added in clarification.

>    rendering, making customizations more robust, without having to edit any code whatsoever.

Author: Added in explanation.

Access email templates in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` by navigating to
:menuselection:`Settings app --> Technical menu --> Email --> Email Templates`.

Editing email templates
=======================

The *powerbox* feature can be used when working with email templates. This feature provides the
ability to directly edit the formatting and text in an email template, as well as the ability to add
links, buttons, appointment options, or images.

Additionally, the XML/HTML code of the email template can be edited directly, via the
:guilabel:`</>` icon.

*Dynamic placeholders* (text that references fields within Odoo to auto-fill information on the
template) are available for the :guilabel:`Email Configuration` fields, the :guilabel:`Subject`, and
the :guilabel:`Language`.

Powerbox
--------

The *powerbox* feature is an enriched text editor with various formatting, layout, and text options.
It can also be used to add XML/HTML features in an email template. The powerbox feature is activated
by typing a forward slash `/` in the body of the email template.

When a forward slash `/` is typed in the body of an email template, a drop-down menu appears with
the following options:

> :guilabel:`Basic Blocks`

Author: Noted, I will keep that in mind for future revisions.

> :guilabel:`Basic Blocks`

Author: Have this task to complete expanding on this subject: https://www.odoo.com/web#menu_id=4720&cids=3&action=333&active_id=3835&model=project.task&view_type=form&id=3501821

> :guilabel:`Basic Blocks`

Author: This section will be expanded in the doc for Odoo 16.

- :guilabel:`Heading 1`: Big section heading.
- :guilabel:`Heading 2`: Medium section heading.
- :guilabel:`Heading 3`: Small section heading.
- :guilabel:`Text`: Paragraph block.
- :guilabel:`Bulleted list`: Create a simple bulleted list.
- :guilabel:`Numbered list`: Create a list with numbering.
- :guilabel:`Checklist`: Track tasks with a checklist.
- :guilabel:`Table`: Insert a table.
- :guilabel:`Switch direction`: Switch the text's direction.
- :guilabel:`Separator`: Insert a horizontal rule separator.
- :guilabel:`Quote`: Add a blockquote section.
- :guilabel:`Code`: Add a code section.
- :guilabel:`Appointment`: Add a specific appointment.
- :guilabel:`Calendar`: Schedule an appointment.

> :guilabel:`Navigation`

Author: @samueljlieber and I spoke about this and determined there isn't any further nesting we can do here based on the GUI the HTML render looks exactly like the dropdown in production.

- :guilabel:`Link`: Add a link.
- :guilabel:`Button`: Add a button.

:guilabel:`Medias`

- :guilabel:`Image`: Insert an image.

To use any of these options, click on the desired feature from the powerbox drop-down menu.

To format existing text with a text-related option (e.g. :guilabel:`Heading 1`, :guilabel:`Switch
direction`, etc.), highlight the text, then type in the activator key (forward slash) `/`, and
select the desired option from the drop-down menu.

.. image:: email_template/powerbox-feature.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Powerbox feature in the email template.

> XML/HTML code editor

Author: Created task to expand on this in future: https://www.odoo.com/web#menu_id=4720&cids=3&action=333&active_id=3835&model=project.task&view_type=form&id=3501821

Access email templates in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` by navigating to
:menuselection:`Settings app --> Technical menu --> Email --> Email Templates`.

Editing email templates
=======================

The *powerbox* feature can be used when working with email templates. This feature provides the
ability to directly edit the formatting and text in an email template, as well as the ability to add
links, buttons, appointment options, or images.

Additionally, the XML/HTML code of the email template can be edited directly, via the
:guilabel:`</>` icon.

*Dynamic placeholders* (text that references fields within Odoo to auto-fill information on the
template) are available for the :guilabel:`Email Configuration` fields, the :guilabel:`Subject`, and
the :guilabel:`Language`.

Powerbox
--------

The *powerbox* feature is an enriched text editor with various formatting, layout, and text options.
It can also be used to add XML/HTML features in an email template. The powerbox feature is activated
by typing a forward slash `/` in the body of the email template.

When a forward slash `/` is typed in the body of an email template, a drop-down menu appears with
the following options:

> **Basic Blocks**

Author: I've added in guilabels

   the same (the web.base.url key value), whatever the company it's shared from, this is a known
   limitation!

> On the other hand, sales orders made by a customer on one of the Odoo e-commerce websites have a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, sales orders made by a customer on an Odoo e-commerce website have a
```

link established with the website from which the order was made. As a result, the e-mail sent for

> the sales orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sales orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.
```

For more information about how to configure domains, check out :doc:`our domain name documentation
</administration/maintain/domain_names>`.

Updating translations within email templates
--------------------------------------------

Email templates are automatically translated. Changing the translations shouldn't be necessary.

> However, if for a specific reason that some of the translations need to be changed, it can be done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if for a specific reason, some of the translations need to be changed, it can be done.
```

> Like any modification in the code, keep in mind that modifications that aren't done correctly (for
> example modifications leading to bad syntax) can break the template, and as a result, the template
> will appear blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like any modification in the code, keep in mind that if they aren't done correctly (for
example, modifications leading to bad syntax), it can break the template, and as a result, the template
will appear blank.
```

> In order to edit the translations, follow these steps from the template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to edit translations, follow these steps from the template:
```

#. Click on the edit button, then on the language button

   .. image:: email_template/edit-language-template.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Edit the language of a template.

#. A pop-up window with the different languages installed on the database will be displayed. From

>    here, editing the translations will be possible. Don't forget to hit the save button to save

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   here, editing the translations will be possible. Don't forget to hit the :guilabel:`Save` button to save
```

   the same (the web.base.url key value), whatever the company it's shared from, this is a known
   limitation!

> On the other hand, sales orders made by a customer on an Odoo e-commerce website have a link
> established with the website from which the order was made. As a result, the e-mail sent for sales
> orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the other hand, sales orders made by a customer, on an Odoo eCommerce website, have a link established with the website, from which the order was made. As a result, the e-mail sent for sales orders uses the domain name defined for the corresponding website to generate the links.
```

For more information about how to configure domains, check out :doc:`our domain name documentation
</administration/maintain/domain_names>`.

Updating translations within email templates
--------------------------------------------

> Email templates are automatically translated. Changing the translations shouldn't be necessary.
> However, if for a specific reason, some of the translations need to be changed, it can be done.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Odoo, email templates are automatically translated. Changing the translations shouldn't be necessary.
However, if for a specific reason, some of the translations need to be changed, it can be done.
```

> Like any modification in the code, keep in mind that if they aren't done correctly (for example,
> modifications leading to bad syntax), it can break the template, and as a result, the template will
> appear blank.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, like any modification in the code, if they aren't done correctly (for example, modifications leading to bad syntax), it can break the template, and as a result, the template will appear blank.
```

In order to edit translations, follow these steps from the template:

> #. Click on the :guilabel:`edit` button, then on the language button

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Click on the :guilabel:`Edit` button, then on the language button, represented by the initials of the language currently being used.
```
added some specificity

Author: Thanks KC!

   .. image:: email_template/edit-language-template.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Edit the language of a template.

> #. A pop-up window with the different languages installed on the database will be displayed. From

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. A pop-up window with the different languages installed on the database appears. From
```

>    here, editing the translations will be possible. Don't forget to hit the :guilabel:`Save` button
>    to save the changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   this pop-up, the editing of translations is possible. When the desired changes have been made, click the 
   :guilabel:`Save` button to save the changes.
```
